# Queuing-model-CNG-Pump

A model is presented in this project for CNG pumps. The model was developed under the assumption that there are many customers having requirement of fuel for uninterrupted working of their vehicles and limited number of gas outlets in working conditions at every CNG pump (service providers) which provide gas to fill the cylinders of vehicles. The heavy rush at CNG pumps motivates the people to move for other fuels like petrol, diesel etc. which increases the level of pollution in the atmosphere in India. Studying this situation in many CNG pumps we realized that people are ready to switch from other pollution increasing fuels to CNG but the long queues at CNG pumps demotivates them. As per the survey of Times of India, it was observed that long queues of vehicles waiting outside CNG pump stations led to traffic congestion on service lanes or even main roads. It was also observed that haphazardly parked cars and autos (Three wheelers) can also lead to accidents. 

CNG stations can be regarded as a network of queues and servers where customers with their requirements of fuel in respective vehicle arrive, wait for service, get the fuel tank i.e. gas cylinder filled and then leave the station. The length of queue, utilization of pumps and waiting time evaluations are effective tools to support management decisions about capacity planning of their CNG stations as per the arrival and service rate of customers. The results of this study can help us to understand the broader problem, the relationship between resources and waiting times, and to provide a method for understanding and provides a better solution to face the daily crisis at CNG pumps. These problems could be solved from the results of the proposed model. To use queuing models with simulation modelling at CNG pump stations to provide an accurate evaluations of the system’s performance in present scenario, to make appropriate capacity plan in order to maintain optimal uses of resources.

